Housing pricing prediction model
Overview 
Since real estate investing is one of the top performing industries globally, there is a lot of interest in figuring out what factors should be taken into account before making a real estate investment. As a result, this study goes further to investigate the variables that drive housing prices to fluctuate, a choice that has an impact on stakeholders and homebuyers or tenants. Because of this, house price modelling will assist both stakeholders and tenants in making wise judgments and in determining the precise costs associated with investing in real estate or the price of a home, regardless of the services offered. As a result, this will benefit everyone, including stakeholders, as well as the government, which will benefit from knowing how the economy is doing.
 Business Understanding 
Here, a data scientist's responsibility is to find out what factors are most likely to have an impact on home prices. They also look closely at how the variables affect home prices and how much they will impact the stakeholders in the housing market. This is really important because before real estate investors make a decision, they need think about whether the investment will be profitable or not. Data scientists are consequently required to conduct important evaluations and analyses to identify the crucial variables and their influence on investment decisions. Instead of repeatedly going through the process, after careful study, a predictive model that will be utilized to assist new investors entering the market should be constructed.
 Data Understanding and Recommendations
 Secondary data from King County House Sales has been employed to be used in this project as "kc_house_data.scv"
Using data from the KC House, the project generates deductions for housing investments,the research developed a number of models to explore the variables influencing variations in home prices, from which a final model that explains about 50.6% of the variations in home prices was obtained. In keeping with the assumption that a model is only as good as the data used in the analysis, this model is as accurate as it can be. This fact suggests that the data, all the factors which influence it, have not been accounted for but have been accounted for by the error. Although from our model, sqft_above has made the precision of the model increase, the significance of the variable is not positive. This opens the area for further studies to be conducted to investigate sqft_above.


